Add OSS to the quickstart (#14093)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/3.0rc/get-started/quickstart.mdx

description: Get started with Prefect, the easiest way to orchestrate and observe your data pipelines
---

Prefect is an orchestration and observability platform that empowers developers to build and scale code quickly.
In this quickstart, you will use Prefect to convert the following Python script to a schedulable, observable, resilient, and deployable workflow in minutes.

```python
import httpx

def get_repo_info():

>     """Fetch statistics about https://github.com/PrefectHQ/prefect"""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    """Fetch statistics about the Prefect repository"""
```

    get_repo_info()
```

## Install Prefect

Install the Prefect client.
If needed, see [Install Prefect](/3.0rc/get-started/install/) for other options.

```bash
pip install -U prefect==3.0.0rc3
```

## Connect to Prefect's API

> Connect to the Prefect API on Cloud or spin up a local API server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connect to the Prefect API, either Prefect Cloud hosted by us, or a local Prefect server instance:
```

<Tabs>

>   <Tab title="Cloud">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <Tab title="Prefect Cloud">
```

1. Head to [https://app.prefect.cloud/](https://app.prefect.cloud/) and sign in or create a forever-free Prefect Cloud account.
1. Log in to Prefect Cloud from your development environment.

   ```bash
   prefect cloud login
   ```

1. Choose **Log in with a web browser** and click the **Authorize** button in the browser window that opens.

Your CLI is now authenticated with your Prefect Cloud account through a locally-stored API key that expires in 30 days.

If you have any issues with browser-based authentication, see the [Prefect Cloud docs](/3.0rc/manage/cloud/manage-users/api-keys/) to learn how to authenticate with a manually created API key.
  </Tab>

>   <Tab title="OSS">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <Tab title="Open source server">
```

    get_repo_info()
```

## Install Prefect

Install the Prefect client.
If needed, see [Install Prefect](/3.0rc/get-started/install/) for other options.

```bash

> pip install -U prefect==3.0.0rc2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pip install -U prefect==3.0.0rc3
```

Reviewer 2: Got a PR open for this little change, so will avoid a conflict if it merges.

```

## Connect to Prefect's API

Connect to the Prefect API on Cloud or spin up a local API server:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Cloud">
1. Head to [https://app.prefect.cloud/](https://app.prefect.cloud/) and sign in or create a forever-free Prefect Cloud account.
1. Log in to Prefect Cloud from your development environment.

   ```bash
   prefect cloud login
   ```

1. Choose **Log in with a web browser** and click the **Authorize** button in the browser window that opens.

Your CLI is now authenticated with your Prefect Cloud account through a locally-stored API key that expires in 30 days.

If you have any issues with browser-based authentication, see the [Prefect Cloud docs](/3.0rc/manage/cloud/manage-users/api-keys/) to learn how to authenticate with a manually created API key.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="OSS">

> 1. Ensure your current profile hasn't logged into Prefect Cloud:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Ensure your current profile isn't authenticated to Prefect Cloud:
```

   Successfully created/updated all deployments!
   ______________________________________________________
   |                    Deployments                     |  
   ______________________________________________________
   |    Name                       |  Status  | Details |
   ______________________________________________________
   | repo-info/my-first-deployment | applied  |         |
   ______________________________________________________
   ```

1. Schedule a run for the deployment:

   ```bash
   prefect deployment run 'repo-info/my-first-deployment'
   ```

   After a minute or so, you should see the flow run graph and logs on the Flow Run page in the UI.

   ![Flow run graph and logs](/3.0rc/img/ui/qs-flow-run.png)

1. When you're done, click the **More** > **Delete** button on the **Deployments** page to stop further scheduled runs.

## Next steps

You've seen how to move from a Python script to a scheduled, observable, remotely orchestrated workflow with Prefect.
Now considering reading: 

* [Write flows](/3.0rc/develop/write-flows/index)
* [Write tasks](/3.0rc/develop/write-tasks/index)
* [Self-host](/3.0rc/manage/self-host) your Prefect server

<Tip>

> [Book a meeting](https://calendly.com/prefect-experts/prefect-product-advocates?utm_campaign=prefect_docs_cloud&utm_content=prefect_docs&utm_medium=docs&utm_source=docs) with a Prefect Product Advocate to get your questions answered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Need help? [Book a meeting](https://calendly.com/prefect-experts/prefect-product-advocates?utm_campaign=prefect_docs_cloud&utm_content=prefect_docs&utm_medium=docs&utm_source=docs) with a Prefect Product Advocate to get your questions answered.
```

14:28:33.255 | INFO    | Flow run 'energetic-panther' - Finished in state Completed('All states completed.')
```

## Create a work pool

Running a flow locally is a good start, but you should use a remote destination for production flows.
A [work pool](/3.0rc/deploy/work-pools/control-runs/) is the most common way to do this.

<Tabs>

>   <Tab title="Cloud">

Reviewer 2: Do we want suggest a Process type work pool for Cloud and OSS? Then they would be the same setup and both expose folks to workers. Docker also introduces come more install and complexity that we may want to avoid for the quickstart.
